hi my name is Dale Longworth I'm the
owner of lights off incorporated a
headlight service located Oscar in New
York I've been in business since 1997 as
a professional lights technician and I
treated thousands of children and their
families my main goal is to help people
and educate them on how to treat lights
our society today that is why I've
decided to make a tutorial video for my
website to allow people to go on to it
and learn how to correctly combat an
infected individual first you're going
to put a towel around the child I want
to make sure all the knots are out of
the child's hair then you're going to
apply the lice treatment shampoo it's
all natural and chemical free and what
it does it kills the lice bugs and also
loosens the cement that the eggs are
attached to on the hair shaft it's going
to be very cold for the child when you
first apply and it's going to smell like
peppermint oil so just pour it on so we
usually massage the shampoo in for about
five minutes getting a very good lap I'm
going to just show you I'm going to put
a little water on it just to let it try
to get a little lathered up make sure
you get all the necessary areas
especially around the neck hairy in the
back and also around the ears very
important to loosen up some of those
eggs that are hiding now you can buy the
shampoo in my business I sell it with my
business so if you're looking to buy the
shampoo you can contact me and after you
massage for about five minutes you want
to let this shampoo sit on the child's
hair for 20 minutes make sure you let
the child know what it does sit on their
hair for broccoli 20 minutes it is going
to tangle so they're going to feel some
tingling sensation it's okay that is
what tells us that the enzymes are
working once you finish
keeping it set on the hair for 20
minutes then you have to rinse it out
thoroughly with just water after you
rinsed the shampoo out with water again
make sure you get all the knots out of
the hair
and once the knots are all out then we
start with the comb out process and we
take the Pantene conditioner and we
apply it to the head why we use Pantene
conditioner it is because it's very
thick and it pulls a lot of the eggs out
once they're loosened by the treatment
shampoo massage the Pantene conditioner
to the hair fully make sure you don't
apply too much only because then it gets
to globby and then I start the comb at
process I always work from one side then
to the middle and then to the other side
split the hair into sections when we
start the comb out process I always use
baking soda
I find baking soda works really well to
course up the hair and to pull any
unnecessary eggs they're still in the
head and also the bugs I use a metal
lice comb this is called the lice
Meister comb I really like this comb
because it really does pull a lot of the
eggs and the bugs out do not use any
plastic combs they do not work what I do
then is I dip the comb in the baking
soda the tips and then you apply it to
the the hair first I comb in this
direction always from the top always to
the bottom from the top all the way to
the bottom
if you come 1 2 3 and then you wipe the
conditioner off with the paper towel and
look at it if you see some Brown ovals
those could be eggs and if you see some
things that look like sesame seed with
legs on it those could be the bus
to scrape the scalp line when you comb
not hard very gently you will definitely
see Brown if the child has lice okay
then we're going to show a different
angle of combing we're going to again
dip the comb in the baking soda and
we're going to comb from the part all
the way down making sure again you
lightly touch that scalp line again you
can comb one two three and then wipe
with the paper towel at times you can
even comb more than one two three
depending on the infant station my last
step in combing out is to put the child
down on a table either TV table or
regular table and have the child look at
one side dip the comb in the baking soda
and I start angling the poem in angling
through the sides getting the sides and
getting the back of the head if the
child's hair does get very dry anytime
it gets dry you can always take the
water and give it a little spritz to wet
a little bit and anytime you want you
can always reapply more Pantene and more
baking soda lice is becoming very
stubborn today we have a super lice that
a lot of the pesticides are becoming
resistant to them and that's why most of
the professionals we will all been doing
this comb out process and finding it's
really really helpful the first
treatment of combing it's going to take
you about maybe one hour or more to get
rid of the lice usually I suggest three
days of combing and then every other day
for ten days and what you can do is comb
twenty to thirty minutes and just make
sure that the combing lasts up to the 14
days after you finish combing then again
you can rinse out with just water and in
the future stay tuned because we're
going to make more tutorials on how to
light proof your house and any questions
or answers that people might have
I'm Dale Longworth and I'm here to help
you
[Music]